stats.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Let's Encrypt Stats
permalink: /stats/
top_graphic: 3
excerpt: Let's Encrypt certificate statistics.
---

These statistics are updated daily.

<div class="figure">
  <h2>Let's Encrypt Growth</h2>
  <div id="activeUsage" title="Let's Encrypt Growth" class="statsgraph"></div>
</div>

<div class="figure">
  <h2>Percentage of Web Pages Loaded by Firefox Using HTTPS</h2>
  <p>(14-day moving average, source: <a href="https://wiki.mozilla.org/Telemetry/FAQ#Telemetry_and_User_Control:_FAQ">Firefox Telemetry</a>)</p>
  <div id="pageloadPercent" title="Percentage of Web Pages Loaded by Firefox Using HTTPS" class="statsgraph"></div>
</div>

<div class="figure">
  <h2>Let's Encrypt Certificates Issued Per Day</h2>
  <div id="issuancePerDay" title="Let's Encrypt Certificates Issued Per Day" class="statsgraph"></div>
</div>

## Code

- [ct-sql](https://github.com/jcjones/ct-sql) ingests data from Censys.io, CT logs, and Firefox Telemetry.
- [ct-sql-queries](https://github.com/jcjones/ct-sql-queries) contains the SQL queries run periodically to construct the data.

<script src="/js/stats.js" async></script>
<script src="/js/plotly-min.js" async></script>

Commit message:

Update statistics to note the stats methodology change
This patch updates the statistics pages to point to the new mechanism for
generating statistics (ct-mapreduce), link to the Community post, and
annotates the cut-over date on the statistics charts.

The annotation I think we'd want to eventually remove, or maybe make less
obvious / hide in some way, but for now I think blunt is appropriate.

Relatedly, this patch updates the "backup" cert-timeline.tsv to current-date
and catches the methodology change.

This patch can merge at any time, but please coordinate with me before
updating the website so I can also cut-over the generation from the old
way to the new way.

stats.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Let's Encrypt Stats
permalink: /stats/
top_graphic: 3
excerpt: Let's Encrypt certificate statistics.
---

These statistics are updated daily.

<div class="figure">
  <h2>Let's Encrypt Growth</h2>
  <div id="activeUsage" title="Let's Encrypt Growth" class="statsgraph"></div>
</div>

<div class="figure">
  <h2>Percentage of Web Pages Loaded by Firefox Using HTTPS</h2>
  <p>(14-day moving average, source: <a href="https://wiki.mozilla.org/Telemetry/FAQ#Telemetry_and_User_Control:_FAQ">Firefox Telemetry</a>)</p>
  <div id="pageloadPercent" title="Percentage of Web Pages Loaded by Firefox Using HTTPS" class="statsgraph"></div>
</div>

<div class="figure">
  <h2>Let's Encrypt Certificates Issued Per Day</h2>
  <div id="issuancePerDay" title="Let's Encrypt Certificates Issued Per Day" class="statsgraph"></div>
</div>

## Code
Since the [2017-07-03 methodology change](https://community.letsencrypt.org/t/adjustments-to-the-lets-encrypt-statistics-methodology/):
- [ct-mapreduce](https://github.com/jcjones/ct-mapreduce) ingests data from CT logs and Firefox Telemetry, and produces statistics about Let's Encrypt.

Before 2017-07-03:
- [ct-sql](https://github.com/jcjones/ct-sql) ingests data from Censys.io, CT logs, and Firefox Telemetry.
- [ct-sql-queries](https://github.com/jcjones/ct-sql-queries) contains the SQL queries run periodically to construct the data.

<script src="/js/stats.js" async></script>
<script src="/js/plotly-min.js" async></script>
